So we had this big nasty
error showing up for
our particular user here,
whenever they were loading the page.
So we can punch in on this stack trace,
and just see if we can understand it.
So this first line of it is saying,
cannot read property substr of null.
And it's happening at
rantListView.js line 8.
So we can just use the navigation
right in here to go into it.
And what's happening at this
particular section of code,
is it looks like we're in the middle
of this giant templated string.
Template string is one
of the new features in
JavaScript that you reference
using the backticks.
And allows you to build
interpolated strings.
Well inside of this string, way down here,
Chrome has even underlined, hey, this
line right here is where the problem is.
I couldn't find substring because
rant.text was null for some reason.
Let's see if we can attach a debugger,
and see if we can understand.
So, I'm gonna try and
put a debugger here on line 8.
But doesn't work.
Every time I try and click on line 8,
it keeps trying to attach
a debugger on line 15.
Now the problem here,
is that this entire string template
is considered a single statement.
And the chrome debugger will not allow
you to attach the debugger inside
of a single statement.
You can either attach it at the start
of the statement, or at the end.
So I can put a debugger on line 4,
or I can put a debugger on line 15.
But I can't put a debugger
anywhere in between.
So the debugger on line 4,
because let's catch this thing
before we actually blow up.
Let's try this thing again,
and we'll reload, So,
when we start this, we get our template
function was called with an object rant.
And indeed, rant.text is null.
So that's certainly why we
can't call substar on it.
You can't call the substar function
on anything other than a string.
So let's see if this was, is this our
fault that random text is null, or
is this bad data from the server?
And we can figure that out by
looking at the Network tab again.
So we can look at it.
This is data that is coming from rants, so
we can pop open this
API requests to rants.
And using the preview tab here in the
network, it will format the response so
we can kind of decipher
it a little bit easier.
If we look at all the rants
that we're pulling down,
there's a lot of them coming.
And if we pop open one of them,
we see that the data actually coming
from the server, contains the text null.
So for whatever reason,
our servers returning bad data for
this user account,
got some junk in its account.
Maybe it was a bad restore.
Maybe we weren't doing proper client
side validation for a while, and
we took some bad data.
Or maybe this is a dev account and
somebody just screwed something up.
For whatever reason,
our client needs to expect,
that sometimes the server will return data
that isn't quite the shape we expect.
The server is a different application,
and so we need to guard against it.
So we need to add some
validation to understand,
can we render this thing
before we attempt to?
So I'm going to use the sources
navigation to kind of go up.
I don't think adding object validation is
appropriate to go in a template function.
So I'm gonna go up a little bit, and
see where does this get called from.
It gets called from this
function here called render.
And this seems like a fine enough
place to add a validation step.
So I'm gonna go ahead and stop execution.
And let's just see if we can create
a little, a simple validator here.
So I want to get the rant object.
The rant object was passed into template.
And so it must be this thing right here,
that this.model.toJSON.
That must be how we create the rant.
So now that we have the rant,
we should see,
all right,
we only want to do this if it's valid.
And if it's not valid,
we wanna do something else.
We should probably track some sort of
analytics to know that we have bad data,
and show the user something reasonable, so
that we don't totally screw
up their user experience.
So, if there's no, or if rant.text,
let's see what should we do,
if type of rant.text is not a string,
because that's what we expect it to be.
Then, Let's send an error
to our analytics,
and our analytics happens to just attach
to anything that gets sent to console.
So we're gonna print
a console error that says,
Received invalid rant data, rant.
And then let's do something for the user.
Let's say their rant text is now,
Sorry, an error occurred.
We're on it.
And then, rather than regenerating this,
we'll just pant rant directly.
So we injected a little, a simple
validation routine here into render,
it's probably not the right place for
this long term in the architecture,
we should probably create
a better validation mechanism.
But this will do for now to solve our bug.
Let's reload and
just make sure that that works.
So, I left my breakpoint here, but
that's fine, we can still check.
At this point, we've called rant.
And now the rant is valid even
though that error occurred,
we injected user friendly text into it.
So let's go ahead and
detach this and see what happens.
So all the data came back for the user.
The posts or the rant that I attempted to
go in, plus a bunch of bad data sorry,
an error occurred, sorry, an error
occurred, sorry, an error occurred.
This is a much a better user
experience for the user,
even though there's errors
all over the place.
At least we told them there's errors,
at least we told them that we
know that there is errors.
And, we do in fact know
that there is errors.
Because we can go to a console and
see, here's all of this bad data
that got set up to our monitoring.
So we can now see that this is
happening and respond to it.
So this was a data bug.
Just like we need to validate our
data before we send it to the server,
we can't always trust the server either.
And servers will often send us data
in shapes that we don't expect.
Anytime your client side application
is communicating with any API
that has an application boundary, and you
need to do the same kind of protections
that you would do between
any application boundaries.
So in this case, we added a very
simple safety check of the data.
We looked at the network Inspector, and
especially in previewing the response,
which allows you to
easily navigate through
large datasets coming from the server, and
play more with the JavaScript debugger.
I think we're gonna break here for lunch.
So this morning, we kinda talked a little
about about JavaScript, about how to go
about debugging, and we debug our
first four issues inside of getranter.
In the afternoon, hopefully I think we're
gonna have time to debug four more.
We're getting to a little bit more
advanced stuff, like memory and
performance.
And finally, we'll wrap up
the day with some thoughts on
designing applications for
easier debuggability.